EC2 instance pricing is the most straightforward and well understood pricing in AWS.
The prices are public and posted,
instance types and sizes are logical and easy to understand,
and everyone knows how to do the simple math of price per hour times hours run per month.
However, despite this transparent pricing and easy math,
instance costs remain one of the obstacles to establishing and
maintaining a cost efficient AWS implementation.
On-demand instances are the default instance type
that you launch to the basic EC2 launch wizard.
You pay the stated price with per second billing,
and you can run with on-demand instances as long as you like,
just as long as you're aware there are lower-cost options available.
AWS may serve some banners on the EC2 page letting you know that you could be
paying far less by using reserved instances or a new lower-cost instance class,
but they won't make you change your provisioning ways.
You will be permitted to overpay,
but AWS does a pretty good job of making sure that you're doing it knowingly.
I can think of many reasons you would run on-demand instances for a short period of time,
like non-production experimental workloads, load testing,
and production, training environments that are
used infrequently and situations like that.
But there's no reason to run on-demand instances long-term if you know how
your application performs in production over a reasonable monitoring period.
It's imperative that architects understand instance pricing.
In understanding how AWS prices instances and provides pricing incentives,
you can save up to 80 percent on your monthly bill,
and typically, at least 50 percent.
AWS provides the following purchasing options
to enable you to optimize your costs based on
your needs: On-demand instances where you pay by the second for the instances you launch,
reserved instances where you reduce your Amazon EC2
costs by making a commitment to a consistent instance configuration,
including instance type and region for a term of one or three years,
and spot instances, where you can request unused EC2 compute
resources which can reduce your Amazon EC2 costs significantly.
The way you plan to use your EC2 instances has a big impact on how much you pay.
Here are some examples of some usage and cost comparisons: Savings plans reduce
your Amazon EC2 cost by making a commitment to a consistent amount of
usage in US dollars per hour for a term of one or three years;
scheduled instances, where you purchase instances that are always
available on the specific recurring schedule for a one year term;
and dedicated hosts, where you pay for a physical host that is fully
dedicated to running your instances and bring your existing per socket,
per core or per VM software license to reduce your cost.
In dedicated instances, you pay by
the hour for instances that run on single tenant hardware.
Capacity reservations are where you reserve capacity for
your EC2 instances in a specific availability zone for any duration of time.
Pricing also varies based on
AMI and operating system so explore the pricing and options before committing.
An AMI is an Amazon Machine Image.
AMI is defined the operating system, built-in tools,
and storage configuration of your EC2 instance,
and you select it when you're launching an instance.
To best manage infrastructure,
considering who on the team should be able to launch EC2 instances.
In a data center model,
this certainly is impossible.
So consider if it should be here.
Should developers have their own AWS account?
AWS has instance types based on the purpose.
You can save by selecting the right instance model and size from the start.
In AWS, updates new generations frequently.
When they do, be prepared to move to
new generations to save money and realize performance gains.